# Syllabus

## Module 0 - Building Blocks Intro

The main idea of this course is to complete the content and challenges for each of 4 modules. In [Module 0](https://www.google.com/search?q=counting+from+0), we will introduce the basics of JavaScript, an exceedingly popular programming language for Software Engineers. The goal of this module is to give you a basic understanding of the syntax of JavaScript, as well as equip you with the skills to solve introductory problems. You are expected to produce original code (read: not copy/pasting from a website or clicking on hints until the answer is available) but at this stage it's ok to not have the syntax memorized and need to refer to documentation or examples. These introductory topics will become second nature in the next section, Building Blocks Mastery.

## Module 1 - Building Blocks Mastery

In the this module, referred to as Building Blocks Mastery, or Blocks, you will perfect your usage of basic and fundamental Javascript concepts by solving around 152 problems. Each problem will be of a similar nature, namely, you will be asked to create one function for each challenge. The circumstances surrounding this one thing will vary, but your final answers will ultimately be a single function. After this module, you should have a good sense of the methods and tools of Javascript that are likely to appear in the technical interview. The repetitious and numerous nature of the problems is designed to give students a chance to develop their habit of coding Javascript syntax. Practice of this type enhances interview performance by muscle memory alone. The last 7 problems in this module can be considered a decent wrap up of many of the topics presented in Blocks.

## Module 2 - Writing Code Well

In the second module, we are going to shift gears slightly. Both this module, referred to as Writing Code Well, as well as Module 3, referred to as Live Performance, have readings and documentation that are considered rather valuable for success. One could consider that practice at reading documentation is as valuable as anything else when preparing to become a software engineer. The material contained in the documentation provides "scratch the surface" style information about a number of topics that are part of getting the most out this course. Also contained is a list of sample solutions to the problems presented in this section. These solutions will only represent one among many valid ways to solve each challenge, and are included to give a sample finished product. Consistently modeling your code after the style in which these solutions are presented, can help you ensure improved performance during the interview. The goal is to structure your code such that it presents its functionality as coherently as possible, to anyone who might view it.

## Module 3 - Live Performance

As the third module beings, we will shift gears once more, though perhaps not for the final time. Let us take a moment to recollect: you have now learned about Javascript, practiced your tools to razor precision, and finally, you have honed your code presentation such that it readily presents a cohesive story. The final step is to quite literally practice performing. During the interview, your performance will be evaluating partially on how well your "pair-program" with you interviewer. This boils down to a simple idea. When you pair program, you are either at the same or below the skill level of your partner, or you are above their skill level. In the case where you are of superior skill, is your delivery of the answers during your technical interview likely to be beneficial for the student programming with you? In the case where you are not quite as skilled as your partner, is your communication sufficient for the other person to wish to continue working with you? These may sound complicated and difficult, but like everything, practice makes perfect.
